# Minutes for the 2024-01 Eye Gaze Working Group meeting

## Meeting Location
Physical Meeting Room: Tampa Room, Orlando Florida World Center Marriott

Virtual Location: Zoom

## Meeting Time
1 PM EST, January 25 2024

## Attendees
- Tolt Technologies: Jay Beavers
- Cephable: Jon Campbell
- Irisbond: Oscar Berreteaga
- Eyegaze Inc.: Pete Norloff, Preethi Vaidyanathan, James Brinton
- Talk To Me Technologies: Matthew Dunning
- Tobii Dynavox
- Apple
- Control Bionics: Todd Tyler
- PRC-Saltillo: Chip Clarke, Dustin Welty
- NextVPU
- Dagesh Assistive Technology: Efi Fallah
- Google: James Stout
- Tobii Dynavox: Tara Rudnicki

If you attended the meeting and you are not listed here, please contact [Jon Campbell](jcampbell@cephable.com) to be added to the list.

## Agenda

[Agenda](./agenda.md)

## Approval of Minutes

No prior minutes to approve as this is the first meeting.

## Meeting Notes

### Introduction

Jay Beavers: The initial proposed focus of the working group is to group to ensure smooth eye tracking application integration. USB Standard for low level work exists, with the draft specification available at https://github.com/ATIA-Org/eye-gaze-aware. Existing accessible eye tracking solutions either emulate mouse/keyboard or directly is eye gaze aware software.

David Dikter – CEO of ATIA:
ATIA hasn't typically done standards work, will need help defining rules. Specifically noted there will be no discussion of including or excluding folks. No discussion about product pricing. Noone has to include or exclude IP, everyone must understand what they are exposing or contributing. Members should be mindful of their own corporate policies. Hopeful for the future of this working group. Welcome.

Jay: Plan is annual meeting at ATIA, with virtual working groups as appropriate. Working with David to flesh out ATIA online communities. To supplement using github. [ATIA-Org/eye-gaze-wg](./agenda.md) has the existing agenda.

### New items to add to agenda:

- ATIA policy, scope, license
- Review of overarching goals, particularly around existing proposal.
- Question – are things said here “open”? Consensus – be cautious for the moment.

### Review and Approval of Bylaws

Bylaws as presented were not fully addressed. Suggestion to review and approve bylaws at next meeting.

### Discussion Regarding Overarching Goals

#### Open Standards
Preference towards open standards such as IETF, as opposed to other bodies where you have to pay to be a member and thus access the results of the work.

Web standards have been abused in the past. Word of caution around scope goals that protects user privacy. Note about Google’s speech output was abused to fingerprint PWD among others.

Need to be mindful of conflict of interest to ensure privacy and prevent. Suggestion that we take this in mind, but not prevent moving forward. As we move forward gut check against this goal.

#### Eye Gaze Aware Specification
Jay Beavers, as a rep of Tolt technologies, makes an eye gaze aware application that is independent of vertically integrated suites. Note of limits vertically integrated systems. “Eye gaze today is where mice/trackpads were at 25 years ago.”

USB HID spec for eye gaze should be part of this discussion, since it’s the starting point. Note about limitations of current HID surfacing to application developers. Need to be thoughtful of privacy concerns of high-fidelity signals from eye gaze.

Can we use existing licensing strategies to handle the concerns? Tobii and Apple do this today. Thesis is that this is sufficient.

Size of group determines the strategy for subgroups. Acknowledgement of thesis, concerns from other W3C standards that have been abused, asked to have privacy as a component of the standards formation.

#### Data Access Standards
Table data access standards for 2024. Suggest offline review of [bylaws](../../bylaws.md).


### Election of Officers
Nominations for chair: Jay Beavers – moved, seconded, elected unanimously.
Nominations for secretary: Jon Campbell – moved, seconded, elected unanimously.

### Schedule Next Meeting
Schedule next meeting: 1 month from now, via zoom. Will use various online tools to get a reasonable consensus on date/time. Target end of Feb.

## Adjournment
Meeting closed

# Action Items
Jay Beavers to send out poll for next meeting time.